- Keywords: #Archives
- Due Date: [[Monday, August 31, 2020]]
- Goals: Write convocation address
- Word Count: 1,356
- 
    - Biblical Passage
        - Jeremiah 29:4–7 (NRSV)
            - 4 Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, to all the exiles whom I have sent into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon: 5 Build houses and live in them; plant gardens and eat what they produce. 6 Take wives and have sons and daughters; take wives for your sons, and give your daughters in marriage, that they may bear sons and daughters; multiply there, and do not decrease. 7 But seek the welfare of the city where I have sent you into exile, and pray to the LORD on its behalf, for in its welfare you will find your welfare.
                - A good translation of the Hebrew, but verse 7 is more effectively rendered: 
**"But seek the Shalom (or peace) of the city where I have sent you in to exile, and pray to the Lord on its behalf, for in its flourishing you will find peace." **
    - Outline
        - Key Idea: Faithful Presence
            - how should you respond when things have been taken away?
            - Matthew 16:25
                - **Study Bible**
                - **[Take Up Your Cross](https://biblehub.com/bsb/matthew/16.htm)**
                - **24**Then Jesus told His disciples, “If anyone wants to come after Me, he must deny himself and take up his cross and follow Me. **25**[For](https://biblehub.com/greek/1063.htm) [whoever](https://biblehub.com/greek/3739.htm) [wants](https://biblehub.com/greek/2309.htm) [to save](https://biblehub.com/greek/4982.htm) [his](https://biblehub.com/greek/846.htm) [life](https://biblehub.com/greek/5590.htm) [will lose](https://biblehub.com/greek/622.htm)[it,](https://biblehub.com/greek/846.htm) [but](https://biblehub.com/greek/1161.htm) [whoever](https://biblehub.com/greek/3739.htm) [loses](https://biblehub.com/greek/622.htm) [his](https://biblehub.com/greek/846.htm) [life](https://biblehub.com/greek/5590.htm) [for My sake](https://biblehub.com/greek/1752.htm) [will find](https://biblehub.com/greek/2147.htm) [it.](https://biblehub.com/greek/846.htm) **26**What will it profit a man if he gains the whole world, yet forfeits his soul? Or what can a man give in exchange for his soul
        - Key Application
        - Introduction
            - stuff has been taken away from us 
                - ccvd has taken away so much of our daily lives: for some, the global pandemic experienced throughout our planet has meant...
                    - for others it has resulted in ....
                    - for many of us, it seems to have taken away ...
            - we might be wondering — how to cope and adjust to this new situation
            - what if God could use this season in our lives to prepare us for a much more effective and meaningful future?
        - I. 
        - I. The Crisis: Exile and Loss
        - Conclusion
    - Research Notes: [[P: Research for Convocation Address]]
    - 
    - Body Text
        - INTRODUCTION
            - As people, we began in a garden but will end up in a city. To see why this is this important, and to grasp why your education at Canada’s finest Christian global University is both a stunning privilege and calling, listen to this comment on the dramatic transfkrmation well underway on our planet:
            - ”
            - >”In the course of less than 300 years, our world will have shifted from one in which only 3 percent of people live in cities, to one in which 80 percent are resident in urban areas. If the Christian church does not learn new modes of urban ministry, we will find ourselves on the outside looking in.”
            - Cities are the center of cultural and economic development in our twenty-first-century world. Cities produce the people, economic resources, businesses, art, universities, political policies, and research and development—the cultural goods—that shape and define our modern society. What happens in London or Hong Kong today will affect the American financial market more than what happens in the suburbs of Chicago.
            - Today’s reality is that cities are larger, more diverse, more powerful, more innovative, and more global than ever, and they are advancing faster than they have ever done in the past. From Shanghai to Moscow, London to Mumbai, New York to Seoul, São Paulo to Cairo, the world has never been more urban. Humanity’s march toward the city has reached a new benchmark. In 1900 only 14 percent of the world’s population lived in urban areas; that number had grown to 30 percent by 1950. In 2008 the world’s population was evenly split between urban and rural areas, but in 2011 the world became predominantely urban.22 The numbers are even more striking in developed areas where, on average, 74 percent of the population lives in urban areas.23
            - 
            - As we surveyed the Old Testament material on the city, one of the primary motifs that emerged was that of refuge. Known for fortified walls and well-functioning legal systems, cities were the place for marginalized, poor, and even fugitive people to find safety. When Israel was exiled from the presence of God, they lost not only access to the temple, but also the safety of the city of the great King. The removal of sin from the city was the only way that Israel could remain in the refuge-presence of God (Ex. 29:14), and when the sacrificial system was ultimately unable to remove the sin of the people, the people themselves had to be removed from the safety of God’s presence. How, then, can God’s people hope to be restored to the refuge of the city of the great King? Hebrews 13 shows us the way. There we are told that in his crucifixion, “Jesus . . . suffered outside the gate in order to sanctify the people through his own blood” (v. 12). At the cross Jesus forgoes the refuge of the earthly city, is expelled from God’s presence, and perfectly bears the sins of the people. The result is the establishment of a future city, “the city that is to come,” in which God’s people will forever enjoy the refuge and comfort of his presence, uninhibited by sin (v. 14). This has immense significance for the way we presently live our lives. Because through faith we live in communion with God and mysteriously experience the refuge of that future city, we are now able to have a realistic perspective on and relationship to our cities. Even as we live deeply connected lives in our present cities, we understand ourselves to be dual citizens who do not ultimately derive acceptance, approval, comfort, and refuge from them (v. 13). To paraphrase Keller, we are citizens of one city, yet full-time residents of another. Our primary allegiance is given to a city from which we derive our most formative beliefs and practices. And yet we live in our cities of residence as full participants. We do not live as natives, tourists, or travelers; we are “resident aliens.”40 Because in Christ we now experience in an already/not-yet manner the benefits of perfect relationship with God in that future city, we can rightly interpret the blessings of the earthly city as a promissory down payment of that city that is to come.41 “By his grace, Jesus lost the city-that-was, so we could become citizens of the city-to-come, making us salt and light in the city-that-is.”42
            - SEEKING THE WELFARE OF THE CITY As Jeremiah 29:7 commands, we are to pray for the city and seek its welfare. We’re told that in seeking the shalom of the city, we will find our welfare. In other words, if the city prospers, then you will prosper also. This Hebrew word shalom (translated here as “welfare”) means complete well-being, universal flourishing, wholeness, delight, and blessing. It is “a rich state of affairs in which natural needs are satisfied and natural gifts fruitfully employed, a state of affairs that inspires joyful wonder as its Creator and Savior opens doors and welcomes the creatures in whom he delights.”4 It is a description of multidimensional wholeness and flourishing that is not just spiritual, but also material, physical, psychological, and economic. This shalom will not come through Christians establishing parallel subcultural institutions, but through a conviction to bring comprehensive renewal to the city by pursuing its common good.5 Many urban folks that we know often think thoughts like: “I know I’m supposed to be here because our church always emphasizes that we’re city positive, but I’m getting worn out. There’s so much pollution and noise and stress in the city that I’d like to move to the mountains of New Hampshire or Lake Tahoe. It’s so quiet and beautiful there, maybe I’d be more happy there.” By default, we assume that being outside the city is good and living inside the city is bad. Indeed, “most Christians read the Bible through rural lenses.”6 But the city is where culture is shaped. The city is where the people live.7 And God loves people! And since cities are full of people, we know that God really loves cities. As Tim Keller states, “Because the world is on its way to becoming 70 percent urban, we all need a theological vision that is distinctly urban. Even if you don’t go to the city to minister, make no mistake: the city is coming to you.”8 Why do cities matter? Cities matter because people matter. At the risk of overstatement, Bill Crispin argues that cities matter because there is a high concentration of people: “The city is the place where there are more people . . . [and since] God loves people . . . [we can be assured that] He loves the city.”9 Culture is established in cities—the places where diverse people are most densely congregated together to live, work, worship, create, learn, and play. Scripture calls us to align our lives and talents with the missional heart of God by contributing to our culture’s common good—by making a serious contribution to our city’s art, business, music, law, literature, education, medicine, finance, etc. We see a perfect picture of this in Jesus Christ who came to earth in the ultimate contextualized way. Jesus did not undercontextualize his incarnation—he did not commute to Jerusalem from heaven—but through his incarnation, Jesus left heaven and took up residence in an earthly city and engaged a fallen humanity in order to redeem it.
            - You shall love your neighbor as yourself” (Matt. 19:19). It is the best way to engage and love our cities. Cities are simply places full of neighbors, places with a higher and more diverse concentration of people than found elsewhere. Think of your city as a place teeming with neighbors whom you are called to know, love, and engage with the gospel. What is beautiful and what is broken in your city is a product of the long history of good and evil committed by the inhabitants of the city, good and evil that have meshed together to create the dominant cultural motifs of your city. You should contextualize your worldview to your city the same way you would go about contextualizing your faith to an individual neighbor: listen first, speak second. To love your neighbor intelligently and to share your faith credibly, you must first understand your neighbor. You must learn your neighbor’s history, values, fears, dreams, and mode of operation. Once you begin to learn your neighbors, you have information by which you can most effectively love and communicate to them. This rule of relationship also governs our relationship to our cities. Contextualization in the city is essentially the task of getting to know your city’s story in order to find the points at which that narrative overlaps or differs with the gospel. It is obtaining the information you need to most effectively love and communicate to your city.
            - How do you explain the rapid growth of the church in the first few centuries? Sociologist Rodney Stark observes: To cities filled with the homeless and impoverished, Christianity offered charity as well as hope. To cities filled with newcomers and strangers, Christianity offered an immediate basis for attachments. To cities filled with widows and orphans, Christianity provided a new and expanded sense of family. To cities torn by violent ethnic strife, Christianity offered a new basis for social solidarity. And to cities faced with epidemics, fires, and earthquakes, Christianity offered effective nursing services. . . . When Christianity [appeared], its superior capacity for meeting these chronic problems soon became evident and played a major role in its ultimate triumph . . . [for what Christians] brought was not simply an urban movement, but a new culture.18
            - 
            - our Saviour was crucified outside of As we begin a new academic year together at Trinity Western University it is a good thing to stop and listen to the Word of God. For holy scripture, the Bible, has, down through the centuries, afforded God's people hope, direction, wisdom, and the truth of God's will and calling for our lives. 
                - And how wonderful was it to hear the words of Jeremiah spoken in all of these different languages. 
                    - As Canada's leading global Christian University it is entirely fitting that we find positive ways of showing how diverse we really are. We are privileged to be an academic community comprised of students from over 70 different countries. 
                    - You see, when the Bible is translated into a people's own language,  they then know that they matter to God. When God speaks their language, they know that their culture is not a barrier to God. They come to know that God loves them, and offers them salvation. 
                    - When we hear scripture spoken in these many languages, a crucial insight begins to form in our hearts and minds, and it is this: 
                    - Not only do we, whose mother tongue is English, matter to God, but all peoples, and all cultures, matter -- and that long before we were here, God was at work, finding effective ways to be present within and among different cultures, peoples, and languages. 
            - It turns out, that this insight is critical if we want to be able to do two things: 
                - (1) understand the biblical passage out of which Trinity Western University's has extracted its theme for the year: and (2) gain a firm purchase on how we are to live out our Christian faith today. 
                - So, in an effort to help us better understand what God is saying to us through the words of Jeremiah 29:4-7, I thought that we should spend just a little time together reflecting upon
                - 
            - Certainly there was an Eden on this very unhappy earth. We all long for it, and we are constantly glimpsing it; our whole nature at its best and least corrupted, its gentlest and most humane, is still soaked with the sense of `exile'." 
            - These are the words, written by J.R.R. Tolkien, the famous author of the Lord of Rings, among many other wonderful works of fiction, describe where we are. 
            - In saying, "there was an Eden on this very unhappy earth" Tolkien is bringing to our memory the fact that the illness, suffering, violence, hatred, and death were once NOT part of our human experience. In the long-distant past, human beings did not know what it means to hate, hurt, and humiliate. In short, there was a time when we were not familiar with sin and brokenness.
            -  What's more, Tolkien rightly captures the fact, that we all yearn to be out from under the burden of this brokenness. 
                - 
        - I. Crisis: Exile and Loss
            - The book of Jeremiah is tailor made for our time. 
            - When everything has been turned upside down, and when daily life has a very different rhythm than it had a mere eight months ago, with all that social distancing, quarantine, and the absence of a vaccine mean to each of us, it is fair to say that our lives have been *disrupted*. 
            - Many feel a tremendous loss during this time: loss of employment for some, loss of opportunity, friendship, belonging, and for some families, the loss of a loved one. 
            - For many today, isolation, vulnerability, and uncertainty can appear to be the only offerings on the menu, and we find ourselves yearning for society to return to "normal". 
            - So, how is what we're experiencing connected to the waning years of the 7th century BCE in Egypt?
            - 
            - s, as I will show, a very helpful book to be reading in the book to be reading in the midst of a global pandemic. One day, we will be past this global pandemic and life may well return to something that approximates the life that you were living prior to 
            - s Jeremiah 29 apply to you?
                - A clear connection between ou, sometimes the connection between the world of the Bible, and the world in which we live is hard to find. Today, however, it is so unmistakeable:
                    - the prophet Jeremiah is living in a   
            - The role of a Prophet in the Hebrew Bible:
                - First, the role of the prophet in ancient Israel was “to nurture, nourish, and evoke a consciousness and perception alternative to the consciousness and perception of the dominant culture around us.”60 This definition suggests that the prophet preached God’s word (an alternative consciousness) to a nonbelieving community (the dominant culture). Jeremiah did just that. His prophetic ministry was characterized by his preaching God’s word to a people who had forgotten who and what God is. Jeremiah nurtured and nourished the people with God’s word, but they refused to accept.
                - Second, Brueggemann suggests that the prophets preached “relinquishment and receiving.”61 This idea is based on a sound “theological conviction: God’s powerful governance is displacing the present idolatrous order of public life and is generating a new order that befits God’s will for the world.”62 Jeremiah preached the “relinquishment” of the old ways of idolatry and oppression and the “receiving” of God’s word that brings life in times of crisis, hope in times of despair.
                - Just as “Jeremiah … challenged their falsely based security, their double-think, their manipulative ways, their god-substitutes,”63 we too must challenge people today in all their sin by proclaiming God’s Word, which brings life to those who repent. Brueggemann and E. Martens have called attention to both the oppression of people in society and the lack of morals in society today. As much as at any time, the Book of Jeremiah is relevant for today.
                - Martens calls for “courage” (like that of Jeremiah) in proclaiming God’s Word. Such courage “entails boldness to confront evils in a world where evil is normalized; to protest against preachers of an ‘easy grace’ which promises endless benefits without responsibility; to present a God who demands righteous living and sends his wrath against all evil.”64 The prophet Jeremiah is a model whom we should imitate in proclaiming God’s Word.
                - 60 W. Brueggemann, __Prophetic Imagination__ (Philadelphia: Fortress, 1978), 13.
                - 61 Brueggemann, __Hopeful Imagination__ (Philadelphia: Fortress, 1986), 4–7.
                - 62 Ibid., 4.
                - 63 E. Martens, __Jeremiah__, BCBC (Scottdale, Penn.: Herald, 1986), 26.
                - 64 Ibid., 27.
        - II. Resolution: Faith Presence
            - 
        - CONCLUSION
            - As Canada’s leading Christian Global University, what is the connection between:
                - who we are: our mission; 
                - what we believe: our faith in the God of the Gospel and commitment to the Missional value of the life of the mind; 
                - what we believe we are called to do in the world: our vision — or execution of TWU’s mission?
                    - Are we prepared to  
    - 
    - 
