- Draft of Introduction to [FALL 2020 Board Report](<FALL 2020 Board Report.md>)
    - Amidst an unprecedented season of challenge, I am profoundly moved by the tireless effort, dedication, and teamwork on display among TWU staff and faculty. Each of you has played an important role in preparing the University to welcome a significant cohort of students this fall and it is my privilege to share with you the final enrolment numbers for Fall 2020—a testament to God’s faithfulness to our University and community.
    - **Trinity Western University has just received the highest enrolment in its 58-year history.** Fall 2020 enrolment is 4,774 students, up from 4,476 in 2019. Overall university enrolment has increased 6.7% over last year.
    - “While we are pleased with the strong results, we are most thankful for the opportunity to continue to advance the mission of the University,” shared Brian Kerr, Senior Vice President of Enrolment, Personal and Career Development. Brian continued, “Essential components to success were the commitment and resilience of the student body, the dedication and adaptability of staff and faculty, and the ongoing support, prayers and encouragement of our donors, alumni and friends of TWU.”
    - We all recognize that the strong Fall enrolment results are the product of a major concerted effort across all areas of campus.
    - **This spring, we re-invented our modes and methods of delivery for courses, student life and student services**, and initiated significant strategic and operational changes within the University in a very short time period.
    - In May 2020, with less than 120 days to achieve our aim, and using a team-of-teams concept, TWU launched twelve cross-functional, COVID-19 task force groups with gifted leaders from across campus. These task force groups joined efforts to pursue a single objective: to prepare the University to educate a significant cohort of students this fall and spring by expanding our face-to-face campus learning experience with an innovative, multi-access delivery model—so that all students can enjoy the riches of a Trinity Western University experience.
    - During the past half-year, we have seen a number of significant advances in Trinity Western’s innovation, including: the [TWU Live](https://twu.us4.list-manage.com/track/click?u=fb3b49b48f2565494ac1ffb8d&id=7777d9da76&e=b3e7ec7d9e) event series, welcoming prospective students on a virtual journey to TWU; the [Journey Forward Grant](https://twu.us4.list-manage.com/track/click?u=fb3b49b48f2565494ac1ffb8d&id=ac81961fb5&e=b3e7ec7d9e), providing special COVID-19 financial aid to students; and the new [TWU Access](https://twu.us4.list-manage.com/track/click?u=fb3b49b48f2565494ac1ffb8d&id=33ecd63470&e=b3e7ec7d9e) student experience.  None of these developments could have happened without the dedication and teamwork among TWU staff, faculty, generous donors and the supporting community.
    - **The appeal of a Trinity Western University education is evident in the growing numbers of students who chose to attend TWU this fall**, both online and, when possible, in-person.
    - Within traditional four-year undergraduate programs, enrolment increased 1.1%. Within non-traditional or flexible undergraduate programs—including certificates and degree completion programs—enrolment increased 6%. Among graduate programs, enrolment grew 35%. The overall headcount among all of our programs grew from 4,476 to 4,774, representing a robust 6.7% growth overall.
    - **While enrolment results are encouraging****, we have experienced the effects of the global pandemic in other areas. ** With on-campus residences reduced to 50% capacity due to COVID-19 restrictions, ancillary services for the University have seen a significant drop in revenue. Additionally, many faithful donors have felt the profound effects of the global pandemic—both personally and in their businesses. Even in this setting, donors continue to invest and give generously so that we can continue to serve Christ and seek to advance the work of the kingdom through the vital mission of our University.
    - Although there are many more challenges ahead for us, we are deeply grateful for each of you. As a means of recognizing your dedication and service, we are granting employees three days (Dec. 29-31) as leave with pay. If you are normally required to work on any of those three days performing essential services, you will be given equivalent time off within the following 30 days.
    - Every one of you has made a sacrifice to see the mission of TWU carry on, and I wish to personally thank you for your continued dedication and faithful service, as together, we look forward to sharing the wonderful news of God’s ongoing faithfulness and blessing upon Trinity Western as a global Christian University.
    - Let us pray that the Lord would continue to grant us wisdom for the season that lies ahead.
    - Grace and Peace,

# Backlinks
## [August 17th, 2020](<August 17th, 2020.md>)
- {[x] }} Revise and Distribute Presidential Recommendations to Finance Committee [Board Report](<Board Report.md>)

- {[x] }} Format Executive Summary of Recommendations to Constituent Members [August 18th, 2020](<August 18th, 2020.md>) [Board Report](<Board Report.md>)

