- SUBMITTED BY: Deans Allyson Jule, Todd Martin, Sheryl Reimer-Kirkham, Kevin Sawatzky, David Squires, Glen VanBrummelen, Blair Whitmarsh (Sonya – do you want to add your name here?)
- PREAMBLE
    - COVID-19 has created many challenges for the university and our constituents, but it also presents to us new opportunities that were not previously part of our vision or planning process. The steps taken over the past 4 months, by ELT and other university leaders, have put us into a position where we can continue to thrive as a university and move forward optimistically. Strategies put in place by the various task forces, securing Canadian Emergency Wage Subsidy funding, voluntary compensation adjustments, scaling back on the TWU workforce, creative recruitment and enrolment strategies, and dynamic work by the Faculty to move to online and multi-access teaching stand as examples that have placed TWU in a good standing as we head into Fall 2020.
    - Given the current financial picture (as presented on August 5th 2020), the Deans recommend an approach of fiscal responsibility and innovation for 20/21, the development of a TWU Strategic Plan in place for 2021, and plans for the long-term financial stability of the university. Without a TWU Strategic Plan, it is difficult to build out the university and prioritize spending. COVID-19 will undoubtedly have a multi-year impact on TWU finances, hence the need to engage in a multi-year financial analysis in Fall 2020. The modest drop in enrolment projected for the 2020/21 academic year will have an impact for 2-4 years after as the newly enrolled students work their way through to graduation. CEWS funding will be a significant financial help to TWU for the 2020-21 academic year and give us the needed time to conduct a strategic re-structuring process to put us in a strong financial position for the years to follow.
- RECOMMENDATIONS AND POSSIBILITIES
    - The Deans have conferred to generate a set of recommendations and possibilities, with an eye on balancing revenue-generating options with cost savings and efficiencies. These recommendations include proper restructuring of expenses for long-term fiscal stability on the cost side of the University.
        - **1. REVENUES.** Seek innovations that can be quickly implemented to fill gaps in revenue streams.
            - a. Program Innovations. In each of our academic units, we are considering questions such as: are there programs that could be expanded, or new programs that could easily and quickly be launched (e.g., with minimal approval processes)? Could we market online courses that might be of interest beyond enrolled students (e.g., as continuing education, or certificates)? Examples:
                - i. Fully online Master’s degree in Coach Education. There are thousands of high school, college, and elite coaches who want to get a Master degree in Coaching Education but are unable to re-locate to Langley. We have the Faculty and elite coaches at Trinity Western that we could start a program like this as early as Fall 2021.
                - ii. LPN to MSN pathway. Targeted recruitment into the Adult Degree Completion (BA Leadership), with 3 UG nursing courses as elective. Preferred admission to MSN program. These students would take upper level nursing courses (non-clinical) where we tend to have some attrition and thus some “empty” seats.
                - iii. A health sciences BSc program, possibly interdisciplinary between FNAS and Nursing could be staged substantially by repackaging existing courses and adding no more than one new faculty member.
                - iv. Move the Masters of Educational Leadership from Global to the School of Education would decrease costs of duplication and add revenue through a more coherent place for this program as well as add to the School of Education’s Masters level programs. In addition, the School of Education could add 8 new on-line graduate certificates for teachers this year with existing faculty: Indigenous Education, Christian Education, Special Education, School Leadership, TESOL, Gender and Sexuality, Educational Technology, and Curriculum and Design
                - v. Public Relations Certificate in SAMC/Media+Communication: intended for the postgraduate market, but available for UG, it is already approved by IAC/Senate, on track for fall 2021 launch.
                - vi. Consider separate School of Leadership Studies (similar budget structure to other academic programs).
            - b. Robust Fundraising. Lean on existing donors, seek out new donors, and expand faculty specific hubs for fund-raising for scholarships, endowed research chairs, capital equipment.
            - c. Alumni Engagement. Expand faculty-specific hubs for alumni engagement (beyond the university-level alumni). Many alumni are more affiliated to their programs than the university.
            - d. Campus Utilization. Develop a comprehensive strategy for utilizing the TWU campus during the summer months, and situations in which there may be reduced utilization (e.g., Minoru).
            - Summer campus utilization has improved over the years but our goal should be to have the residences full all summer with rental groups and students taking courses or working in the area. COVID-19 has impacted our ability to use our facilities in the present but this will change and we must be ready for it. Full utilization of the campus during the summer months should managed in purposeful way with staff dedicated to that task.
    - 2. **EXPENSES**. Avoid costs where possible, and employ mitigating strategies.
        - a. **Salary freeze and reductions**. There is no doubt that we must ensure the viability and success of TWU as a premier academic institution but any strategy for dealing with the financial impact of COVID-19 must protect faculty and staff compensation. The 20-25 year history at TWU has had numerous financial challenges that involved budget reductions, salary and hiring freezes and consolidation of programs. As a result, and despite the recent attempts to increase faculty compensation (and to a lesser degree, staff compensation), it is clear that the faculty and staff compensation rates at TWU are still significantly below where they should be. If compensation cuts are made apart from impending insolvency, it is likely that unionization will result. Therefore, in the case of a 20/21 deficit, the Deans strongly recommend that the BOG seek bank approval to run a small deficit. We do not support involuntary reductions in compensation.
        - For the same reason, the salary freeze already implemented should be lifted as soon as possible. If in January, the budget forecast looks to be a balanced budget, unfreeze salaries on a graduated basis (starting with those at lower salaries). The freeze on the faculty salary grid (holding salaries at 2019-20 levels) should be lifted in January 2021 if the budgets forecast looks to be balanced. This strategy would show movement toward the 10 year compensation target. The saving for the previous 8 months would have been significant but demonstrate the desire to still reach the 10 year target.
        - b. **Hiring “chill”.** Implement not quite a freeze, but careful evaluation of hires.
        - c. **RRSP Contribution Adjustment. **We do not support involuntary reductions in benefits. This would be a short term strategy impacting what is already an inadequate pension plan.
        - d. **Maintain current PT rates for 2020-21 year.** In May 2021, move forward the PT rates, with the 10-year compensation plan.
        - e. **Faculty ProD funds must be protected.**
        - f. **Operating Expenses**. Where possible, reduce expenses. Aim for a voluntary non-salary operating reduction of ~ 5% for each budget centre, recognizing the delicate balance of expenses necessary to generate revenue. Cost savings will come from less travel, fewer events hosted, and reduced discretionary spending.
        - g. **Defer non-urgent expenditures to later years.** Reduce operating capital as much as possible. Projects that can be delayed until May 2021 should be. This is a short term solution (not sustainable beyond a year).
        - h. **Non-essential flights**. As a general principle, reducing non-essential university air travel until May 2021 would be a positive decision for both safety and cost-saving reasons. We do not however recommend an across-the-board moratorium on flights, as there may be some situations in which travel may be required. International programming (e.g., in China) requires travel once restrictions are lifted. Travel using grant monies should not impacted, beyond the global caution against flying.
        - i. **SAMC hiring changes (faculty).** Combined savings of ~$113k from a FT Game Development hire delayed a year (no strong candidates), Worship Arts sessional hire cancelled (program contraction), and change in Associate Dean appointment/structure for this year only. Another ~$24k total has been allocated to long-overdue sessional conversions for 2 long time Music PT faculty – under the circumstances, if things look more positive this year these should proceed as planned.
        - j. **Moratorium on FAR centre offerings internationally this year**; focus on domestic FAR centres.
        - k. **Close Bellingham **campus in September rather than May.
    - 3. **EFFICIENCIES AND PRODUCTIVITY.** Seek efficiencies in program and service offerings.
        - a. Reduce Sections, Increase Class Sizes. With careful consideration of pedagogical principles and remembering that smaller class sizes are a key part of the TWU value proposition, we may be able to implement this strategy in some situations (and already have done so in select situations for Fall 2020). Examples:
            - i. Nursing has reduced the number of clinical groups and dropped an elective.
            - ii. The School of Education can reduce the number of practicum hours for undergraduate students in accordance with BCTC regulations
            - iii. One introductory statistics course across the campus rather than individual departments offering their own courses with smaller numbers
            - iv. Expand ADC offerings with focus on domestic students.
        - b. Expenditures for multi-access. Hire students to support technologies and Moodle classrooms. Invest in technology – the Tech Fund is a great example of this!
        - c. Hiring TAs to support Faculty. Rather than pay Faculty at OL, hire graduate students at lower costs to support teaching.
        - d. University Integration. Strong integration of systems and programs, to maximize and leverage university resources.
        - e. Actively support the long-term health and wellbeing of students, staff and faculty morale above all other considerations. People are our biggest resource. This prioritization is going to pay off with less sick time and higher productivity, and is an expression of Christian justice/compassion. Creatively find ways to meet F2F. Build simple, accessible outdoor meeting spaces and classrooms (use of pavilions for such purposes, for example)
        - f. Communication Strategy. Provide as much certainty as possible, as early as possible. Communicate regularly and efficiently. Faculty and staff too are very concerned about the financial health of the university.
        - g. Prioritize spending for marginalized groups on campus. Active engagement with Indigenous Advisory and other marginalized groups such as people of colour, students who affiliate with other religions or do not self-identify as Christian, and students who identify as LGBTQ+, for student retention. Hire Indigenous student(s) to support Indigenous initiatives under Patty Victor’s guidance.
        - h. Prioritize outcomes that limit disruptions to operations. So much of what we do so well does not actually cost money (e.g., Orange Shirt Day on September 30th; hosting office hours and student Townhalls).
        - i. Strategic Re-Structuring. The university needs to look at re-structuring the way we operate and organize the various units across the university. CEWS funding and other decisions give us the time needed to take a deep look at becoming a leaner, more efficient university. redesigning programs, collapsing divisions and departments, eliminating programs, reexamining our tuition, revenue and cost structures, and developing new initiatives can be very difficult but this is the right time to do so.
    - 4. **RECOMMEND 20/21 budget be unfrozen** and continue with guidelines in place, as per above.
    - 
