- Dear Rhodes Scholarship Selection Committee, 
- 
- As President of Trinity Western University, it is my privilege to offer you this letter of strong support for Mr. Jordan Koslowsky. Jordan is an individual who embodies the highest expression of intellectual, moral, and inter-personal qualities. I respectfully submit that Jordan is  selfless and abiding commitment to protect and honor the dignity and lives of marginalized and vulnerable people across the globe reveals how very much he is, what Dietrich Bonhoeffer characterized as, a will 
- 
- 
- reflect well upon  reflect well upon the  and dignity of commitment to there is every indication that Jordan will ordan would not only  confident that if Jordan was selected to become a Rhodes Scholar, he would bring 
- He is a remarkably gifted, engaging, focused, and effective leader who exhibits  what necessary to being a s by the Rhodes Scholarship Committees. -personal characteristics. and outstanding leadership 
- **Details about Jordan:**
    - Jordan Koslowsky (a Trinity Western University 2019 graduate).
    - based on a considerable amount of personal interaction with this student, that he is an excellent representative of all it means to have a Trinity Western University education
    - He was not only a top-notch student, he was a member of the elite men's Spartan volleyball team. He was a student leader, as well as envisioning and implementing a means to enable refugee families to come to Canada. He is truly a leader who I have no doubt will leave a significant mark on our world.
- **Details about the Application**
    - A critically important step in the application process requires that the President of Trinity Western University support the application
    - The Rhodes Selection Committee will be grateful, therefore, if you would supply a frank and confidential statement regarding the applicant’s qualifications. Your prompt response to the auto-generated email reference request will be of great assistance to the applicant and to the selection process.
    - DUE October 10
    - ^^Purpose of Scholarship^^
        - Rhodes Scholarships are for young leaders of outstanding intellect and character who are motivated to engage with global challenges, committed to the service of others and show promise of becoming value-driven, principled leaders for the world’s future. The broad selection criteria are:
    - ^^Criteria^^:
        - Academic excellence (First Class Honours or GPA of minimum 3.70 out of 4.00, or equivalent).
        - Energy to use their talents to the full (as demonstrated by mastery in areas such as sports, music, debate, dance, theatre, and artistic pursuits, including where teamwork is involved).
        - Truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy for and protection of the weak, kindliness, unselfishness and fellowship.
        - Moral force of character and instincts to lead, and to take an interest in their fellow human beings.
        - The Committees are looking for outstanding young people who are motivated to engage with the global challenges facing humankind, who are committed to the service of others, and to the promotion of international understanding and peace. In short, candidates will be young people of **outstanding** **intellect,** **character,** **leadership,** **and** **commitment** **to** **service**, who demonstrate a strong propensity to emerge as 'leaders for the world’s future', wherever their careers might take them, and in any field. For further details, see.
        - NOTE:
            - Proven intellectual and academic quality of a very high standard is the first quality required of applicants. However, and just as important, applicants will also be required to demonstrate integrity of character, interest in and respect for their fellow human beings, the ability to lead, the energy to use their talents to the full and the desire to make an effective contribution to the world around them as described above.
            - The reference form will clarify which type of reference you have been asked to submit. Whether you have been asked to provide an academic reference, or a character/extra-curricular reference, it is not expected that you will be able to speak from first-hand knowledge of __all__ the applicant’s qualifications.
            - **Character** **referees:** If, on the other hand, you are better acquainted with the applicant through non-academic interests, it is expected that you will concentrate on assessment of character and non-academic qualities, in the knowledge that the Committee is looking for scholars who show promise of outstanding achievement in later life.
    - ^^Form of Reference^^
        - A brief introduction of yourself would be helpful, including any connections that you have with the Rhodes Trust, Rhodes Scholars and also the University of Oxford (such connections are certainly not essential).
        - All letters of recommendation for applicants should be addressed to the __Rhodes__ __Scholarship__ __Selection__ __Committee.__ The Selection Committee (and subsequently the University of Oxford) asks **that** **your** **letter** **of** **recommendation** **be** **on** **headed** **paper,** **signed,** **and** **uploaded** **in** **pdf** **format.** You will receive an auto-generated email requesting the reference, which will contain instructions for completing and submitting your letter. As well as uploading your reference letter, you will be asked to complete some basic information about yourself and your relationship to the applicant. All letters of reference should be received via the online application system. **Please** **ensure** **that** **you** **press** **submit** **once** **you** **have** **completed** **the** **form.** Once you submit the reference both you and the applicant will receive an automated email to confirm receipt; the applicant will not be able to see the submitted reference, which will remain confidential.
    - Bob's Reference Letter
        - Please accept this letter as my unqualified personal endorsement of Jordan Koslowsky. I write this letter in my capacity as a President Emeritus of Trinity Western University, having completed my six-year term as President very recently (April 30, 2019). Mr. Koslowsky was a student at Trinity Western since September, 2014. I have been able to observe him over the past four years as a student, athlete, and student leader.
        - I have been extremely impressed by this young man from a number of perspectives. First, as is evident from a transcript of his academic standing, he is extraordinarily bright. He has both a diverse and deep appetite for scholarship, and has shown a determined commitment to remain a well-rounded person without compromising his exemplary intellectual acuity.
        - However, having high marks is only one dimension of a young person’s competence and
        - character. I would identify a second perspective exemplified by Mr. Koslowsky; diligence. As a member of the 2018/19 Trinity Western Champion men’s volleyball team, he has provided tangible evidence of his ability to focus in and deliver in both sports and academic pursuits. He recognizes, as is evident from his balancing of concurrent involvement in a variety of endeavors, that a truly successful person requires more than just brainpower; he must be prepared to work hard. In addition to his intelligence and self-discipline, it is noteworthy that his life is characterized by a servant leadership not commonly found among young people. He has a well-deserved reputation for garnering support in pursuing benevolence and social justice, as the founder and leader of Trinity Refugee Awareness Campaign (TRAC). Not only was this initiated by Jordan, he was responsible for garnering widespread support in successfully bringing a family of refugees to Canada, where TRAC continues to support their integration into Canadian society. It is through this selfless effort that I feel confident in highlighting Mr. Koslowsky’s character, being one marked by integrity, self-sacrifice for the benefit of others, commitment to justice and mercy, especially the disadvantaged and disenfranchised, and humility, a trait rarely found in leaders of any age.
        - As with many people in the professions and in business, I have been asked to write (and, in turn, have read) many character references, endorsements or letters of commendation. Upon receiving and reading some of these letters, I have often concluded that superlatives come too easily, and excessively positive references may well be given out of a sense of obligation. Such should not be said of my endorsement of Mr. Koslowsky. On the contrary, I fully expect that this young man will exceed my commendation.
        - I am of the strong view that he would be a credit to the long line of Rhodes scholars. It is my hope that serious consideration will be given to his application.
        - I have been particularly struck by Jordan’s ability to “think outside the box” in a nonlinear fashion. He is not one who limits his analysis of any problem to simply that which has been tried before. Further, in terms of research and understanding of issues that have arisen, he has proven a thoroughness and dependability that I could rely on.
        - The difficulty has been one of limiting his available options given his extraordinary scope of talent and intelligence, depth of personality and relational skills, not to mention his leadership capability and experience. Indeed, Jordan has a great deal going for him and it would be easy to underutilize what he has to offer. It is my opinion that he will achieve virtually any career goal he chooses.
        - It is my view, based on my observation, interaction and dialogue with him, that his ideal future would best include utilization of his compassion to the deepest needs of others and the ability to ardently commit to worthwhile endeavors, as well as engagement of his broad intellectual skills and creativity. Whatever he turns his mind to, it will most assuredly be done well. However, in order to engage his passionate best, Jordan needs to be pursuing a future of potential significance in the broadest of contexts.
        - In summary, I fully expect the Jordan will be someone to watch as a leader in the future. He is bound to be successful, although not in a follow the “rut in the road” fashion. I am confident that he will wisely and sensitively process any definition of “success” before making it his own. His listening skills will inform the process he utilizes in arriving at that definition, but the expectations of others will not dictate the meaning of “success” in his life.
        - I trust that I have communicated the necessary information and my wholehearted endorsement of Jordan Koslowsky in the narrative above. As previously stated, I consider Jordan an extraordinary individual with unique and highly sought after skills and abilities.
        - If there are any further questions or concerns regarding my letter of reference, or generally, please feel free to contact me, as I would be happy to expand upon the views set out in this letter.

# Backlinks
## [Rhodes Scholar Letter of Reference](<Rhodes Scholar Letter of Reference.md>)
- [Draft Rhodes Scholar Letter of Reference](<Draft Rhodes Scholar Letter of Reference.md>)

