- # Evergreen notes
- __Evergreen notes__ are written and organized to evolve, contribute, and accumulate over time, across projects. This is an unusual way to think about writing notes: [Most people take only transient notes](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z2ZAGQBHuJ2u9WrtAQHAEHcCZTtqpsGkAsrD1). That’s because these practices aren’t about writing notes; they’re about effectively developing insight: [“Better note-taking” misses the point; what matters is “better thinking”](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z7kEFe6NfUSgtaDuUjST1oczKKzQQeQWk4Dbc). When done well, these notes can be quite valuable: [Evergreen note-writing as fundamental unit of knowledge work](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z3SjnvsB5aR2ddsycyXofbYR7fCxo7RmKW2be).
- It’s hard to write notes that are worth developing over time. These principles help:
    - [Evergreen notes should be atomic](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z4Rrmh17vMBbauEGnFPTZSK3UmdsGExLRfZz1)
    - [Evergreen notes should be concept-oriented](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z6bci25mVUBNFdVWSrQNKr6u7AZ1jFzfTVbMF)
    - [Evergreen notes should be densely linked](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z2HUE4ABbQjUNjrNemvkTCsLa1LPDRuwh1tXC)
    - [Prefer associative ontologies to hierarchical taxonomies](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z29hLZHiVt7W2uss2uMpSZquAX5T6vaeSF6Cy)
- This concept evolves in large part from Niklas Luhmann’s [Zettelkasten](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z2QvtE9w5zs49x7WUeG8Ut1vywHDLiG2Wkm9p), which he regards as the independent intellectual partner in writing his 70 books. See [Similarities and differences between evergreen note-writing and Zettelkasten](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z4AX7pHAu5uUfmrq4K4zig9x8jmmF62XgaMXm)
- ## Implementing an evergreen note practice
- See:
    - [Write about what you read](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/zg3fYweZpbHeBTpcYke5mF4ZfrJutYcQEtFo)
    - [A reading inbox to capture possibly-useful references](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z3N113rxPFreW9xUkLkUFomr2LUqfXbdCo3M)
    - [A writing inbox for transient and incomplete notes](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z5aJUJcSbxuQxzHr2YvaY4cX5TuvLQT7r27Dz)
    - [Executable strategy for writing](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z3PBVkZ2SvsAgFXkjHsycBeyS6Cw1QXf7kcD8)
- ## References
- Ahrens, S. (2017). __How to Take Smart Notes: One Simple Technique to Boost Writing, Learning and Thinking – for Students, Academics and Nonfiction Book Writers__.
- Many students and academic writers think like the early ship owners when it comes to note-taking. They handle their ideas and findings in the way it makes immediate sense: If they read an interesting sentence, they underline it. If they have a comment to make, they write it into the margins. If they have an idea, they write it into their notebook, and if an article seems important enough, they make the effort and write an excerpt. Working like this will leave you with a lot of different notes in many different places. Writing, then, means to rely heavily on your brain to remember where and when these notes were written down.
- Luhmann, N. (1992). Communicating with Slip Boxes. In A. Kieserling (Ed.), & M. Kuehn (Trans.), __Universität als Milieu: Kleine Schriften__ (pp. 53–61). Retrieved from http://luhmann.surge.sh/communicating-with-slip-boxes
- ### Links to this note
- [Enabling environmentA collection of densely-connected Evergreen notes is an enabling environment: Evergreen note-writing helps insight accumulate. (See also Evergreen note-writing as fundamental unit of knowledge work)](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z3DaBP4vN1dutjUgrk3jbEeNxScccvDCxDgXe)[Evergreen note-writing as fundamental unit of knowledge workIf you had to set one metric to use as a leading indicator for yourself as a knowledge worker, the best I know might be the number of Evergreen notes written per day. Note-writing can be a virtuosic skill, but Most people use notes as a bucket for storage or scratch thoughts and Note-writing practices are generally ineffective.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z3SjnvsB5aR2ddsycyXofbYR7fCxo7RmKW2be)[Write about what you readIt’s not enough to just highlight or write marginalia in books: there isn’t much pressure to synthesize, connect, or to get to the heart of things. And they don’t add up to anything over time as you read more. Instead, write Evergreen notes as you read.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/zg3fYweZpbHeBTpcYke5mF4ZfrJutYcQEtFo)[Evergreen notes should be concept-orientedIt’s best to factor Evergreen notes by concept (rather than by author, book, event, project, topic, etc). This way, you discover connections across books and domains as you update and link to the note over time (Evergreen notes should be densely linked).](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z6bci25mVUBNFdVWSrQNKr6u7AZ1jFzfTVbMF)[Evergreen note titles are like APIsWhen Evergreen notes are factored and titled well, those titles become an abstraction for the note itself. The entire note’s ideas can then be referenced using that handle (see Concept handles, after Alexander). In fact, this property itself functions as a kind of litmus: as you develops ideas in notes over time and improve the “APIs,” you’ll be able to write individual notes which abstract over increasingly large subtrees (e.g. Enacted experiences have incredible potential as a mass medium, Evergreen note-writing as fundamental unit of knowledge work).](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z3XP5GRmd9z1D2qCE7pxUvbeSVeQuMiqz9x1C)[Evergreen note-writing helps insight accumulateMuch of the day-to-day thinking involved in creative work is simply lost, like sand castles in the tide. Ephemerality can actually be useful in low-fidelity thought, but it’s simply an accidental property in many cases. We should do our serious thinking in the form of Evergreen notes so that the thinking accumulates.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z6cFzJWgj9vZpnrQsjrZ8yCNREzCTgyFeVZTb)[Executable strategy for writingBy contrast, if you’ve already written lots of concept-oriented Evergreen notes around the topic, your task is more like editing than composition. You can make an outline by shuffling the note titles, write notes on any missing material, and edit them together into a narrative. In fact, because you can Create speculative outlines while you write, you might find that the first of these steps is already accomplished, too. And writing each note isn’t hard: Evergreen notes permit smooth incremental progress in writing (“incremental writing”).](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z3PBVkZ2SvsAgFXkjHsycBeyS6Cw1QXf7kcD8)[Most people take only transient notesIn contrast to Evergreen notes, Most people use notes as a bucket for storage or scratch thoughts. These are very convenient to write, but after a year of writing such notes, they’ll just have a pile of dissociated notes. The notes won’t have added up to anything: they’re more like fuel, written and discarded to help the author process their ongoing experiences.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z2ZAGQBHuJ2u9WrtAQHAEHcCZTtqpsGkAsrD1)[Similarities and differences between evergreen note-writing and ZettelkastenMy practice of writing Evergreen notes is heavily inspired by Niklas Luhmann’s Zettelkasten practice and its contemporary advocates. I use a different term both because there are some distinctions and because I want to give myself space to explore ideas in this space apart from the culture surrounding Zettelkasten, which has its own prior values and proclivities.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z4AX7pHAu5uUfmrq4K4zig9x8jmmF62XgaMXm)[A writing inbox for transient and incomplete notesEven if you aspires to write Evergreen notes, most notes begin as transient notes. You should be able to capture thoughts without friction (Close open loops), then reliably develop them into evergreen notes over time (Knowledge work should accrete). This implies two important mechanisms:](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z5aJUJcSbxuQxzHr2YvaY4cX5TuvLQT7r27Dz)[Evergreen note-writing helps reading efforts accumulateThis is also why we write Evergreen notes: so that if we encounter a book which discusses a concept we’ve already written about, we’re pushed to integrate new ideas with our prior conception. Certainly, we normally do this when we read, but we’re limited to our faulty memory of other works which might be related. The externalized note-taking system substantially removes this limitation.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z6M8kex6kDF2FT6MWqAMDQddsqUr8sphLmyy1)[Most people use notes as a bucket for storage or scratch thoughtsThese are not Evergreen notes. Most “storage-oriented” notes will never be useful again (Most people take only transient notes). More importantly, this framing misses that it’s possible for note-writing to be the “real” work (Evergreen note-writing as fundamental unit of knowledge work). ](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z5nw1rPzimCJYyMknDujwvP344Hv3ixCZRZV2)[Writing forces sharper understandingThe additional step of making associations and integrating that writing with prior notes (i.e. to create Evergreen notes, particularly since Evergreen notes should be concept-oriented) makes this effect even more powerful because you have to understand how a given idea relates to other ideas. And when you’re comparing the new ideas to the old, you can see what’s not being said in the new work.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z8q1K5a8i95qARkpFwS45qqtQzM8th82TkeUg)[Evergreen notes permit smooth incremental progress in writing (“incremental writing”)These small, self-contained notes represent regular checkpoints. Each note takes only a few minutes to write, but because they’re Evergreen notes, each note is solid ground to stand on—fairly complete relative to its own concept (Evergreen notes should be concept-oriented). Of course, we’ll iterate on their contents over time, but each time we do, that note will remain a mostly-complete, self-contained unit.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z6C5H4eYH2A4omfNLuUcDiKibQ1hZG2RGNZ97)[The mnemonic medium can be extended to one’s personal notesIn using a Spaced repetition memory system, you’ll fill it with notes on what you’re learning, observing, and thinking. Unfortunately, Existing spaced repetition systems discourage evergreen notes. A memory system will help you retain and continuously engage with what you write, but it won’t much help you build on those ideas over time. An Evergreen notes system will help you build on your ideas over time, but it won’t help you retain and continuously engage with those notes (outside of Evergreen note maintenance approximates spaced repetition). So you’re stuck either duplicating your efforts messily in two separate systems, or giving up one system’s benefits.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z5ARNXtS5VxteskEW91S1yYTgAcLABNXsZuJE)[Evergreen note maintenance approximates spaced repetitionBecause writing Evergreen notes with dense associative structure (see Evergreen notes should be densely linked) requires that we constantly reread and revise our past writing, this type of note-taking approximates spaced repetition.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z6yfTwYekzvBkVjeH7WBUrSAJhyGTMYDAyYW7)[Spaced repetition may be a helpful tool to incrementally develop inklingsI’m often struck by an interesting question or notion in conversation or on a walk. In many cases, I can’t write anything terribly insightful on that topic in that moment: I certainly can’t write a good Evergreen notes. I don’t have anything useful to say about the notion yet—it just seems awfully interesting.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z7iCjRziX6V6unNWL81yc2dJicpRw2Cpp9MfQ)[Note-writing practices provide weak feedbackEvergreen notes offer tighter and higher-signal feedback loops because you’re constantly revising and consulting past notes. It’s somewhat easier to notice if a prior note is difficult to revise. The Executable strategy for writing also creates stronger feedback on one’s note-taking practices.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z66PNF1Wt4AZ4j7TVEenkvPZgvDcHPuSdJC2r)[Salience of improvement drives skill developmentI suspect that this is one key reason why People generally develop skills to a plateau and then stop, and in particular why Athletes and musicians pursue virtuosity in fundamental skills much more rigorously than knowledge workers do. If you’ve never heard of a Spaced repetition memory system, it’s probably not obvious that memory can be made a solved problem. If you’ve never heard of Evergreen notes, it’s probably not obvious that Knowledge workers usually have no specific methods for developing ideas over time.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z5aSQpP5pxVAwzbgQNxy7GTKGjGXrug6615Ui)[Pocket memo pad to capture into writing inbox while outThese notes don’t stay in the memo pad: it’s effectively an inbox which feeds A writing inbox for transient and incomplete notes. Intermittently, during My morning writing practice, I process memo pad notes by developing them into Evergreen notes, by transferring them into my writing inbox, or by discarding them.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z5FKgZAnMhS73t9kenbVUYx23CHSQAE1gKxVf)[HypertextEvergreen notes: Evergreen notes should be densely linked](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/zShLAg6VYyK2dyBQFSuSbDiPUzw5KfAjNCNi)[My morning writing practiceAfter the pre-desk elements of My daily routine, I begin my first serious creative work of the day: at least two hours writing and revising Evergreen notes. This is typically the most challenging work I do all day, so I like to do it when I have the most clarity and focus. It’s not for “note-taking” in a traditional sense—writing down other people’s ideas, or recording things that happened—it’s for developing ideas. (i.e. Most people use notes as a bucket for storage or scratch thoughts vs. Evergreen note-writing helps insight accumulate)](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/zVFGpprS64TzmKGNzGxq9FiCDnAnCPwRU5T)[Evergreen notes are a safe place to develop wild ideasInstead, nurture the wild idea and let it develop over time by incrementally writing Evergreen notes about small facets of the idea. Those notes have much tighter scope: they just have to describe one atomic concept (Evergreen notes should be atomic, Evergreen notes should be concept-oriented).](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z8RTzukqNLKFXzqLwx25HrUrg5E5jiziGznWB)[Evergreen notes lower the emotional stakes in editing manuscriptsBut if one uses the note-based Executable strategy for writing, then much of the work goes into writing Evergreen notes. Material which isn’t essential for a particular piece can become a durable note, seeding a network of links (Evergreen notes should be densely linked) and contributing to future insight (see Evergreen note-writing helps insight accumulate). Or if it needs more development, it can be added to one’s writing inbox (A writing inbox for transient and incomplete notes).](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z26G5QDZgkk3mLTJoWHfzM6kjRzHpTAWHeZWN)[Self-exemplifying mediaMy public Evergreen notes about writing evergreen notes.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z4i7wQCSUgsYdgDiYCEFozKLPE3AeDP232J3v)[MochiAs far as I can tell, this approach to the connection between notes and spaced repetition prompts only works once. You can write a note anew, then generate the prompts, but future edits will cause problems. This approach makes Evergreen notes impossible.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/zxAXSEQidXeYW2XFBj9ftGxz1kTNtV4fXjhZ)[Daily working logIn the Taxonomy of note types, this is the lowest-fidelity layer, ephemeral by design. But as scratch thoughts look like they might have legs, they get extracted into a note in my writing inbox (A writing inbox for transient and incomplete notes). Sometimes I’ll use the daily working log as a drafting space, and I can extract sections roughly-as-is into Evergreen notes.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z28QkpK3vRKQTacjFDfGYBhCXHqHuVWJzny9)[Prefer note titles with complete phrases to sharpen claimsWhen writing Evergreen notes, I’ve found that using complete phrases as note titles helps maintain concept-orientation (Evergreen notes should be concept-oriented). For example: Educational objectives often subvert themselves, Evergreen notes permit smooth incremental progress in writing (“incremental writing”).](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z3KmNj3oKKSTJfqdfSEBzTQiCVGoC4GfK3rYW)[Existing spaced repetition systems discourage evergreen notesThough notes in a Spaced repetition memory system are atomic in the same way as Evergreen notes (Evergreen notes should be atomic), they’re in many ways too atomized (Traditional spaced repetition memory prompts are atomized). The form discourages incremental synthesis and distillation.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/zZuqUv3XNEFsimMmHszLF87Pr5vTraLjL5Y)[Prefer positive note titles to promote systematic theoryWhen writing Evergreen notes, it’s tempting to write notes like “X is bad” or “Y doesn’t work.” Prefer instead to write note titles which express the property or requirement in a positive sense.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z8T6sLNco2benUMgcXUXeJh35eW2obP48DoPp)[Taxonomy of note typesPrompts and incomplete notes in writing inbox (A writing inbox for transient and incomplete notes), which are meant to possibly become Evergreen notes. These prompts may accumulate writing over time via spaced repetition (see Spaced repetition may be a helpful tool to incrementally develop inklings)](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z6f6xgGG4NKjkA5NA1kDd46whJh2Gt5rAmfX)[Brainstorming may often substitute for missing insight accretion systemsA brainstorm’s generative, uncritical mindset might lead to surprising results, but often we also use brainstorming as a practical way to brain-dump all our ideas about a subject in one place. That may be a sign that we haven’t designed our knowledge systems as described in Knowledge work should accrete. With Evergreen notes and dense associative structure (see Evergreen notes should be densely linked), our ideas are collected and distilled continuously. Evergreen note-writing helps insight accumulate, so there’s less need for brainstorming because those insights have already emerged—and captured in an ongoing fashion—in one’s day-to-day work.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z5cVs9BKLJsCYifhYBstAEKuZ8driDzLB3gFd)[The detail-in-context problemThis appears to be a central framing of the problems confronting my work in creating Peripheral vision for Evergreen notes graph structure.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z6zGpscnGJpsV4brsMmuVrMvhYq6EUASYNTY4)[Collaborative knowledge management systems tend to decayI suspect this is because they’re missing a few important attributes which enable Evergreen notes to grow sustainably over time:](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z6jeph6NdePn1TBPPK9958eTVZWfsWQw6VEYD)[Advantages and disadvantages of using notes to form associations in contentWhen we Write about what you read, we have two layers of notes: there are lightweight notes about the reading itself in our reference library, then there are higher-fidelity Evergreen notes in our note archive. It may be valuable to support two layers of noting about association fidelity as well: one could make lightweight associations between materials, then encode the valuable observations into durable notes over time.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z2D6w86eKLuVdmk5icMJ5L6av1nG62HaF7ref)[Conversations incorporating multiple discussants’ evergreen notes may promote collaborative sense-makingEvergreen notes can increase conversational bandwidth, but something particularly interesting happens when multiple people have written Evergreen notes related to a single discussion topic. Instead of figuratively “comparing notes” on an idea conversationally, the discussants can literally compare notes around some idea. Each person will have factored their notes somewhat differently, so it usually won’t be possible to make a 1:1 correspondence—and that’s the whole point. Each person will approach the idea from a different angle, notice different implications, frame it within different contexts.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z8NiytpoGGuh8okwPaca2qnScvc5xCqnS6JBN)[Evergreen notes can increase conversational bandwidthIf a topic you’ve thought deeply about comes up in conversation, the constraints of the medium can become frustrating: it’s often hard to convey lengthy, detailed thoughts in conversation. If you’ve published an article or book on the topic, of course, you can always share that as a follow-up. But that’s a fairly high bar. You probably have lots of well-developed knowledge you haven’t recorded as publishable prose. Evergreen notes can fill this gap. They may lack the narrative structure and prose quality of an essay, but evergreen notes are polished enough to stand on their own and to be worth developing over time. Sharing such a note can increase a conversation’s bandwidth.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z848gfJnsUNa5JjziTzXirNEJsEzRejTeYefX)[§Note-writing systemsEvergreen notes](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/zhmLXArqiCMDr9Q13ViqN3hh3SmrKzjQxWAr)[Digital note-writing systems fixate on the presentation and manipulation of individual notes, mostly ignoring inter-note sense-makingIf I’m writing Evergreen notes onto physical index cards, I’ll naturally arrange them on my desk as I write them. Several notes that are related will likely end up in a small cluster or pile. Notes which follow from others will probably sit physically to the right of “more fundamental” notes. As I’m writing a new note, I’ll see all the other notes I’ve been writing, physically arranged adjacent to it. This is a kind of Peripheral vision.](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z6Pb6rwTDSg7K7LqF2EbtqbnKvpMbiXYkToDi)
