- Dear Board of Governors, 
- I wanted to take this opportunity to let you know that I have launched a search for a new V.P. of Development. Given the departure of Scott Fehrenbacher and Patricia Kerr, an opportunity has arisen to hire a new V.P. of Development to provide new and strategic leadership and management to the existing Development team. 
- As you will see in the [job post for this position](https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/2163743118/), we are searching for a very talented and ambitious person with both significant development experience, missional fit, and an ability to lead, guide, and nurture the growth and productivity of a team that has lacked clear direction and support. 
- I wanted to bring this search to your attention in the hope that you will (1) pray that the Lord will lead the right person to this position; and (2) perhaps share this opportunity among your network. It is a vitally important role with considerable opportunity to flourish and make positive change. Please prayerfully consider sharing the news of this search with individuals who you believe would be a great fit for the University. 
- One final note: it is important to clarify that this person is not displacing Paul Weme who currently holds the title V.P. of Development. Paul's gifts are not in the area of strategic leadership and management -- he does a wonderful job with an important segment of our donors and I am committed to doing all that I can to help Paul to continue to flourish in his valuable role here at TWU. That being said, the development team would benefit tremendously from a professional development officer with the management experience, strategic mindset, and character to design and implement a comprehensive annual and long-range plan for the Development team.
- Thank you for joining me in prayer for this critical search. 
Grace and peace,
Mark Husbands 
