- Keywords: [Archives](<Archives.md>)
- Due Date: [Monday, August 31, 2020](<Monday, August 31, 2020.md>)
- Goals: Research for convocation address
- 
- 2 Corinthians 5:6 (TNIV)
    - 6 Therefore we are always confident and know that as long as we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord.
- Hebrews 11:13 (TNIV)
    - 13 All these people were still living by faith when they died. They did not receive the things promised; they only saw them and welcomed them from a distance, admitting that they were foreigners and strangers on earth.
- Political Theology
    - Fully and Faithfully Present in the World -- James Davidson Hunter
        - Sincerity vs. Wise
            - "If sincerity were the same thing as faithfulness, then all would be well, for Christians, as a rule, are nothing if not sincere—not least in their desire to be “faithful in their own generation.” However, wisdom is required. The changes that have brought about the challenge of difference and dissolution go right to the core of the ability of Christians to live out there faith with integrity."
        - Chapter 3: The Groundwork for an Alternative Way
            - Christians are called to relate to the world within the dialectic of affirmation and antithesis. If there are benevolent consequences of our engagement with the world, it is precisely because it is not rooted in a desire to change the world for the better, but rather because it is an expression of a desire to honor the creator of all goodness, beauty, and truth, a manifestation of our loving obedience to God, and a fulfillment of God’s command to love our neighbor. Antithesis, in contrast, is rooted in recognition of the totality of the fall. Consequently, however much Christians may be able to a affirm in the world, the church is always a “community of resistance.” The objective is to retrieve the good to which modern institutions and ideas aspire, to oppose those ideals and structures that undermine human flourishing, and to offer constructive alternatives for the realization of a better way.
        - Chapter 5: The Burden of Leadership
            - Faithful presence in practice is the exercise of leadership in all spheres and all levels of life and activity. It represents a quality of commitment oriented to the fruitfulness, wholeness, and wellbeing of all. Faithful presence generates relationships and institutions that are fundamentally covenantal in character, the ends of which are the fostering of meaning, purpose, truth, beauty, belonging, and fairness—not just for Christians, but also for everyone. It is an assault on the worldliness of this present age. **The burden of shalom falls to leaders.** (p. 269) dd
        - Chapter 6: Toward a New City Common
            - Christians are to maintain their distinctiveness as a community in a manner that serves the common good. A theology of faithful presence calls Christians to enact the shalom of God in the circumstances in which God has placed them. In Jeremiah 29, the Israelites were called to practice shalom when God commanded them to pray for the welfare of their Babylonian captors. The enactments of shalom need to extend into the institutions of which all Christians are a part and, as they are able, into the formation of new institutions within every sphere of life. The church will not flourish in itself nor serve well the common good if it isolates itself from the larger culture, fails to understand its nature and inner logic, and is incapable of working within it—critically affirming and strengthening its healthy qualities and humbly criticizing and subverting its most destructive tendencies.


            - 

- Inaugural Address as TWU President
    - When taken into exile in Babylon, the religious, intellectual, cultural, and economic builders of Judah faced a dilemma that remains with us today. Two very different paths lay before them: (1) in an effort to quickly assimilate the surrounding cultural values, they could have accommodated or compromised their beliefs; or (2) in order to protect their own culture and religious identity, they could have tried to cut themselves off from the surrounding people. Instead, living in exile, God called the leaders of Judah to faithfully embody a third way. Instead of accommodation or retreat, they were called to be faithfully and fully present to a religiously foreign culture. Listen to a biblical mandate that resounds loudly through the ages speaking as clearly to our situation as it did in Babylon: 
    - > Seek the peace and prosperity of the city to which I have carried you into exile. Pray to the LORD for it, because if it prospers, you too will prosper.” (Jeremiah 29:7)
    - In the midst of exile, God’s people were to remember that they remained under God’s providential care. Rather than accommodating their core beliefs, or disengaging from their neighbours, they were called to seek the peace and prosperity of the city and pray to the Lord on its behalf. 
    - As Trinity Western University embarks upon a new stage in its journey, may we find deep joy and hope in the God who delivered Israel from bondage under Pharaoh, returned Judah from exile in Babylon, and raised Christ from the dead. Regardless of how challenging and foreboding the setting may be, we serve and love a God who in Christ, was fully and faithfully present to us. May we, in turn, strive to be fully and faithfully present to a world in need of the joy and hope of the resurrection. 
    - Yes, godly leaders
    - Yes, impact the marketplaces of life
    - Yes, to the glory of God, 
    - But how? One what what basis?
    - What will a Trinity Western University education give you that you, in turn, will bring to the various marketplaces of life?
- Where are we? 
    - If you stop, for just a moment and ask: what does this day, and this point in the history of the world mean?
    - (from Magazine) 
        - We began in a garden and will end in a city. At the centre of the drama stands the person and work of Christ. Born in the city of Bethlehem, the “Word made flesh” (John 1:14) moves into our neighbourhood. Christ enters a world teeming with cultural, religious, political, and economic vitality, and tragically marred by idolatry, injustice, violence, and oppression. In this dramatic act of translation, divine entry of the Son challenges each of us to ask, what could it mean to follow in his footsteps? How, in other words, may we be fully and faithfully present to a world in need of reconciliation and peace? 

    - By human standards, Jeremiah’s ministry and work was an apparent failure. He preached for forty years without success. Throughout his ministry he was unable to convince Judah that he was God’s prophet, Jerusalem was destroyed, and the nation of Judah ceased to exist because it failed to return to God in humility and obedience. At the same, the book of Jeremiah is one of the greatest prophetic compositions of ancient Israel. 
    - In Jeremiah, chapter 29, we find that key members of the Judahite royal family, priests, prophets, craftsmen and skilled artisans have been taken into exile. Living in a foreign land, God’s people faced a dilemma: do they risk losing their identity by accomodating their values and faith in the hope of finding acceptance among their neighbours, or should create their own sub-culture in an effort to retain religious purity? Does this sound familiar? In a secular age, we find ourselves asking these same questions. Should we assimilate and adopt the moral values of the dominant culture, or is the better part of wisdom found in cultural disengagement and isolation? 
    - Jeremiah 29:4-7 offers us an inspiring call to face the world fearlessly, faithfully, and with focus. In exile, God called his children to resist moral compromise and cultural assimilation. Similarly, they were not to pursue sectarian isolation or seek comfort in the hope of immanent deliverance. Instead, they were called to follow a much more challenging, yet fruitful path: the pursuit of cultural engagement and spiritual renewal. In spite of their political and religious vulnerability, the God of Israel proclaimed: “seek the peace (shalom) of the city where I have sent you into exile, and pray to the Lord on its behalf, for in its prosperity, you shall flourish” (Jer. 29:7).  
    - How will we flourish in an increasingly secular culture? What does it mean for us to follow the way of the Lord? We, like Judah, are called to seek God’s *shalom* (peace, safety, and blessing) for the cities in which we live. Anticipating a day when the holy city of God finally comes down from heaven, when every tear is wiped away, and an end has been brought to pain, death and darkness forever (Rev. 21), we should strive to be fully and faithfully present to the world around us: to build, plant, eat, marry, and multiply. Indeed, knowing that we live “between the times” anticipating the return of the Prince of peace, we joyfully confess that we are called to face the world, and make a difference!
    - In the middle of the second century, a Christian author sent a beautiful letter to a government official arguing that Christians were a blessing and not a threat to civil society. The*Epistle to Diognetus* documents how early Christians lived as resident aliens: “As citizens, they share in all things with others, and yet endure all things as if foreigners. Every foreign land is to them as their native country, and every land of their birth as a land of strangers.” Living as a marginalized and vulnerable minority, early Christians found effective ways to demonstrate the love of Christ.   
    - The *Epistle to Diognetus*, offers us a moving account of the powerful witness of the early Church. Painfully aware of their vulnerable status as Christians, these early followers of Jesus adopted a way of life that allowed them to be a gift and blessing to their surrounding culture. Following Jesus’ command to “face the world” (cf. Matt 5:14-16), they exchanged love for hate, compassion for persecution. The letter lays bare the fact that in the face of hardship, and shame, they “love(d) all men, and are persecuted by all. They are unknown and condemned; they are put to death, and restored to life.”  Conforming their lives to the discipline of grace — our brothers and sisters offered their lives as a living sacrifice to God and, in turn, became the *soul of the city*. Twenty centuries later, the *Epistle to Diognetus* offers us a way forward in a largely post-Christian setting.  
- [Seeking the Peace and Prosperity of the City: The Politics of Jeremiah 29:1,4-7 | Political Theology Network](https://politicaltheology.com/seeking-the-peace-and-prosperity-of-the-city-the-politics-of-jeremiah-2914-7/) [Jeremiah29](<Jeremiah29.md>):7
    - [Seeking the Peace and Prosperity of the City: The Politics of Jeremiah 29:1,4-7 | Political Theology Network](https://politicaltheology.com/seeking-the-peace-and-prosperity-of-the-city-the-politics-of-jeremiah-2914-7/)
        - by Monica Jyotsna Melancthon 
        - The policy of accommodation, cooperative political activities, and praying to God for the well-being of a foreign city as suggested by Jeremiah was both innovative and a great challenge to the exilic community. The letter contradicts other prophets, who supported patriotic actions and an anti-Babylonian policy, prophets who relied on the faith traditions of Israel and championed a short stay in Babylon and a speedy return to Jerusalem. They drew on the compassion and the promise of God to the house of David, and the temple of Jerusalem, and believed very much in the inviolability of both the Davidic dynasty and Zion.
        - As the prophet of critique and hope, Jeremiah rejects their optimism, and was certain that a return to the past is no longer possible. He suggests strategies to survive the suffering and devastation of war and a shattered world, albeit without the old support systems, namely monarchy, temple and land. Jeremiah envisioned a beginning to the healing needed, both communal and individual, in the openness and the courage to give up unrealizable hopes and other harmful practices that seemed to offer a false sense of security. “The prophet of hope insists that the refugee community must surrender its old identity in the land and accept its marginal status in diaspora in order to survive and eventually flourish”.[\[1\]](file:///C:/Users/Alastair/Documents/Power%20in%20the%20Blog/13-10-07%20-%20Seeking%20the%20Peace%20of%20the%20City.doc[_ftn1](<_ftn1.md>))
        - For Jeremiah, the key to survival and hope lay in joining God in the “creation of a just and compassionate counterculture, a place of new shapes and social alternatives where violence, exploitation and idolatry do not reign.”[\[2\]](file:///C:/Users/Alastair/Documents/Power%20in%20the%20Blog/13-10-07%20-%20Seeking%20the%20Peace%20of%20the%20City.doc[_ftn2](<_ftn2.md>))
        - The letter outlines the contours of God’s fresh initiative, which are both spiritual (faith, love and hope)[\[3\]](file:///C:/Users/Alastair/Documents/Power%20in%20the%20Blog/13-10-07%20-%20Seeking%20the%20Peace%20of%20the%20City.doc[_ftn3](<_ftn3.md>))
        - Faith in God becomes faith in the universality of God. When Jeremiah says, “Pray to Yahweh,” he is affirming the fact that Yahweh can be found even in this distant and foreign land. You can call on Yahweh even without temple and sacrifice and Yahweh will answer.
        - Embedded within expressions of faith and love is hope. The entire letter is therefore a testament of hope, although not an easy hope. Jeremiah requests them to accept their situation in exile, but not regard it as unchangeable. It will change. Even if impulsive hopes for change will continually be frustrated, the promise holds as mentioned in a later verse: I know the plans I have for you, plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future.
        - Hence Jeremiah advises them to build, to plant and to pray for these were the beginning of all sound religious practice.[\[5\]](file:///C:/Users/Alastair/Documents/Power%20in%20the%20Blog/13-10-07%20-%20Seeking%20the%20Peace%20of%20the%20City.doc[_ftn5](<_ftn5.md>)) The world will change but perhaps not in your lifetime; build houses and make yourself useful in it. Have children and bring them up, for every child is a confession of the hope that this world is inhabitable and will remain so. Could these truths being communicated through this letter hold any meaning for the exilic community?
        - The socio-political dimension of the biblical text can only be recognized when we acknowledge that the conventional ways of understanding or behaving, advocated by the other prophets did not provide any help in coping with the new circumstances. Hence, Jeremiah’s letter to the exiles, offering a new perspective and interpretation!
        - What can we take away from this text? I think we are first of all called to perhaps move away from any “doctrinal narcissism” and find ways to make our theology politically and socially relevant. This is possible if our theological insights evolve out of our cultural heritages and social resources, as well as our various Christian traditions to address the contemporary social realities.
        - Second, the text calls for a movement away from the privateness of the church and into the world, into the public space to address issues affecting people, especially those on the margins, those that suffer from political, social and cultural insecurity and discrimination.
        - Our theology needs therefore to be transformed into a public theology if it seeks legitimation from and by the wider society. Social concerns, political polity, economic involvement, religious and cultural pluralism, symbolic and liturgical life, and the moral and ethical values of our people are some of the realms that concern our theological discourses.
        - Third, it calls for commitment to seeking shalom (life in all its fullness) and well being for our cities and our neighborhoods. It is what I have recently heard being defined as “progressive localism”—an approach that is outward and expansive.
        - .
        - * * *
        - [\[1\]](file:///C:/Users/Alastair/Documents/Power%20in%20the%20Blog/13-10-07%20-%20Seeking%20the%20Peace%20of%20the%20City.doc[_ftnref1](<_ftnref1.md>)) Stulman, Louis and Hyun Chul Paul Kim, You are my People: An Introduction to Prophetic Literature, (Nashville: Abingdon, 2010)  
        - [\[2\]](file:///C:/Users/Alastair/Documents/Power%20in%20the%20Blog/13-10-07%20-%20Seeking%20the%20Peace%20of%20the%20City.doc[_ftnref2](<_ftnref2.md>)) Ibid.  
        - [\[3\]](file:///C:/Users/Alastair/Documents/Power%20in%20the%20Blog/13-10-07%20-%20Seeking%20the%20Peace%20of%20the%20City.doc[_ftnref3](<_ftnref3.md>)) Gerd Theissen, The Open Door: Variations on Biblical Themes (London: SCM, 1991) 25 -26.  
        - [\[4\]](file:///C:/Users/Alastair/Documents/Power%20in%20the%20Blog/13-10-07%20-%20Seeking%20the%20Peace%20of%20the%20City.doc[_ftnref4](<_ftnref4.md>)) Daniel L. Smith, Jeremiah as Prophet of Non-violent Resistance, JSOT 43, (1989): 102.  
        - [\[5\]](file:///C:/Users/Alastair/Documents/Power%20in%20the%20Blog/13-10-07%20-%20Seeking%20the%20Peace%20of%20the%20City.doc[_ftnref5](<_ftnref5.md>)) James P. Hyatt, “Jeremiah”, IB, (Nashville: Abingdon, 1956) 1017.
    - [Does Jeremiah 29:11 Apply to You?](https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/jeremiah-2911-apply/) [Jeremiah29](<Jeremiah29.md>):7
        - [Does Jeremiah 29:11 Apply to You?](https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/jeremiah-2911-apply/)
            - The Book of Jeremiah is all about God disrupting his people’s plans and upending his people’s dreams. This verse comes in the context of a shocking message from the prophet.
            - Those “left behind” in Jerusalem—anchored around the temple and the throne—assume their relative fortune is a sign that God is for them, while those carted off in captivity to Babylon are seen to be under God’s curse.
            - Jeremiah says, though, that God’s judgment will fall on Jerusalem, and that God’s purposes will spring to life through the exiles.
            - In Jeremiah’s letter to them, they’re told their return from exile won’t happen anytime in their generation, so they should create new lives in Babylon.
            - Through Jeremiah, God is telling the exiles that their scattering isn’t accidental. God has plans for them, plans that include even what seems chaotic and random. Moreover, these plans mean the exile isn’t permanent.
            - And God tells us that since we are in Christ, we are strangers and exiles in this time between the times ([Heb. 11:13](https://www.esv.org/Heb.%2011%3A13/); [1 Pet. 2:11](https://www.esv.org/1%20Pet.%202%3A11/)).
            - God has a plan for you, in Christ. That plan is not for your destruction but for your wellbeing. You are being conformed into the image of Christ—by sharing in his suffering—and your ultimate end is not as a victim but as a victor, a joint-heir with the King ([Rom. 8:12–39](https://www.esv.org/Rom.%208%3A12%E2%80%9339/)). 
    - [Missio on Loving the City: Jeremiah 29 | The Washington Institute](https://washingtoninst.org/missio-on-loving-the-city-jeremiah-29/) [Jeremiah29](<Jeremiah29.md>):7
        - [Missio on Loving the City: Jeremiah 29 | The Washington Institute](https://washingtoninst.org/missio-on-loving-the-city-jeremiah-29/)
            - These are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the surviving elders of the exiles, and to the priests, the prophets, and all the people, whom Nebuchadnezzar had taken into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon. This was after King Jeconiah and the queen mother, the eunuchs, the officials of Judah and Jerusalem, the craftsmen, and the metal workers had departed from Jerusalem. The letter was sent by the hand of Elasah the son of Shaphan and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, whom Zedekiah king of Judah sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon.” (Jeremiah 29:1–3, ESV)
            - Their exile was God’s just punishment on his people for their sin.  They had been conquered by the Babylonians, deported from their land, marched approximately 1,000 miles, and forcibly resettled as servants and slaves in the Babylonian civil service.
            - Jeremiah insisted that God was not done with them, even in spite of their sin.  He was still in control of their lives, their situations, and their callings.  And he still had great plans for them, plans to bless them and even some day to bring them out of slavery and servitude.
            - For thus says the Lord: When seventy years are completed for Babylon, I will visit you, and I will fulfill to you my promise and bring you back to this place. For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope. Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you. You will seek me and find me, when you seek me with all your heart. I will be found by you, declares the Lord, and I will restore your fortunes and gather you from all the nations and all the places where I have driven you, declares the Lord, and I will bring you back to the place from which I sent you into exile.” (Jeremiah 29:10–14, ESV)
            - God insisted through the prophet Jeremiah that their time in Babylon was not simply judgment, nor simply a waste, nor simply biding time until he would return them to their own land.  Instead, it was a time where he placed them in Babylon and called them directly to love the city and to work for its good.  Everything in this group of exiles would want to hate Babylon, the city that conquered them, mocked them, and oppressed them.  But God’s call was to love that city and to work for its good.
            - Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, to all the exiles whom I have sent into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon: Build houses and live in them; plant gardens and eat their produce. Take wives and have sons and daughters; take wives for your sons, and give your daughters in marriage, that they may bear sons and daughters; multiply there, and do not decrease. But seek the welfare of the city where I have sent you into exile, and pray to the Lord on its behalf, for in its welfare you will find your welfare.” (Jeremiah 29:4–7, ESV)
            - Far from hating our world or withdrawing, God called his people into the world, even the world that is stacked against them, oppressing them and standing for everything they reject.  And further, the dominant ways God called for this to occur were quite specific: having and raising children (“Take wives and have sons and daughters; take wives for your sons, and give your daughters in marriage, that they may bear sons and daughters; multiply there, and do not decrease.”) and working and developing the industry of their day (“Build houses and live in them; plant gardens and eat their produce.”).  The predominate ways God laid out to love their city were vocational.  Everything in them would want to hate Babylon, but God said to work for the good of Babylon – through their vocations. 
- Key Quotes:
    - In a letter (110), Tolkien "returned to the attractraction of the happy ending modif, basing it on the relationship with humanity as originally intended by God and located in the account of Eden..."
        - "certainly there was an Eden on this very unhappy earth. We all long for it, and we are constantly glimpsing it; our whole nature at its best and least corrupted, its gentlest and most humane, is still soaked with the sense of `exile'." 
        - 

# Backlinks
## [P: Convocation Address 2020](<P: Convocation Address 2020.md>)
- Research Notes: [P: Research for Convocation Address](<P: Research for Convocation Address.md>)

