**Overview**
    **Background:** The University had been responding to the threat of COVID since early February 2020 evidenced by the TWU Pandemic Response Protocol that was developed by our Wellness Centre health care professionals on February 10th, 2020. This was followed by the creation of the COVID Response Team (CRT). However, the financial impact that COVID-19 would have on the University was largely unknown at that time. When the University Leadership Committee (ULC) met on April 2nd Aklilu Mulat (CFO) provided financial analysis and projections based on what we knew then. This subsequently led to cost-saving measures such as temporary/permanent layoffs, budget constraints, travel restrictions, voluntary compensation
reductions, hiring and compensation freeze for 2020/21. Since April 2nd Dr. Husbands has asked ULC to consider and develop recommendations on how the University might best save money or increase revenue to navigate through the current financial uncertainty. This was emphasized again on June 5th during a meeting with ULC and other University leaders whereby Dr. Husbands outlined his commitment to seeking counsel on an offensive strategy for fiscal responsibility in advance of a potential crisis.
    The situation we are now facing may be more permanent than we would like to acknowledge. Although the government of Canada is willing to go into significant national deficit to help navigate this pandemic for individuals, businesses and organizations throughout Canada (with such measures as CEWS, CERB and CESB) their ability to run deficit-budgets is limited and is not a long-term solution. It is merely short-term relief, or a delay, rather than avoidance of the inevitable.
    Prior to this pandemic, Dr. Husbands was guiding the ULC through the book “Competing against Luck” (C. M Christensen 2016) the focus of which is to help businesses develop and market products or services that customers actually want or need. Christensen’s theory of “Jobs to Be Done” delves into what it takes for successful product innovation, an area of business that is often dismissed as luck. “Jobs Theory” contends that people don’t simply buy goods, they “hire” and “fire” products according to whether the product does the “job” that the consumer needs to be done. According to Christensen, businesses that practice Jobs Theory know that understanding their consumers' behaviour helps predict successful innovation (chapter 1).
    This pandemic has accelerated TWU’s trajectory towards the known reality that the postsecondary institution market is rife for disruption, especially Christian post-secondary education. As we advance with our multi-access learning approach we have an opportunity to build on this initiative by asking the question of what are TWU’s jobs to be done? It is fortuitous or perhaps even providential that Competing against Luck was introduced to ULC. It has undoubtedly helped in the formation of many of the below-mentioned recommendations.
    On July 22nd, 2020 Aklilu Mulat provided ULC with an update on enrollment projections and financial analysis. In short, based on current projections the University is facing a $6m deficit if no action is taken. It is hoped that we will be successful in our application for the Canada Emergency Wage Subsidy (CEWS) program which could eliminate much of the projected $6m deficit. However, regardless of the outcome of our CEWS application, ULC would like to propose the below recommendations to President Husbands for his consideration when meeting with the Board of Governors on August 15th.
    **Recommendations:** The following recommendations are an amalgamation of individual ULC members’ contributions. The various recommendations have been grouped into the following areas:
        Revenues
        Compensation
        Operating Expenses
        Restructuring and Growth Strategies
    These recommendations intend to provide options for the President to present to the Board of Governors to explore both stringent and innovative solutions to place Trinity Western University on the best financial footing for future success. As you will see there are contrasting views on the priority given to certain recommendations most noticeably concerning compensation. With this in mind, we do pray for wisdom for Dr. Husbands and the Board of Governors when discerning what strategies to adopt. Proverbs 2:6 “For the Lord gives wisdom; from his mouth come knowledge and understanding”.
**Revenues**
    It is always more empowering to work in an environment that is dynamic, growing, and moving in a new direction. Bringing more revenue to the university should be the first choice option before considering budget cuts. TWU has many creative and dynamic faculty and staff and together we can create some unique opportunities to increase revenue.
    Create unique fully online graduate programs or executive education opportunities. There are fully online graduate programs that could generate significant revenue for the university over the next few years. Two examples that I am familiar with include:
        Full online Master’s degree in Coach Education. There are thousands of high school, college, and elite coaches who want to get a Master's degree in Coaching Education but are unable to re-locate to Langley. We have the faculty and elite coaches at Trinity Western that we could start a program like this as early as Fall 2021.
        Many universities are doing corporate and executive training through their Business schools and faculties. These programs can be very lucrative and do not require the same level of approvals since they are “training and professional development” and not a new degree offering. I recognize the pressure already on the School of Business but this could create a great opportunity for the School of Business and the university, particularly with the new School of Business building coming soon.
    There could be many other examples of unique online programming that could provide revenue to the university. The current stage-gate model needs to be updated to allow for unique programs to be approved quickly and efficiently.
    Develop a comprehensive strategy for utilizing the TWU campus during the summer months. This has improved over the years but our goal should be to have the residences full all summer with rental groups and students taking courses or working in the area. Full support of full summer camp programs will utilize our facilities in the summer and help to attract students to our courses during the rest of the year. It is clear that COVID19 has impacted our ability to use our facilities in the present but this will change and we must be ready for it. Full utilization of the campus during the summer months should be managed purposefully with staff dedicated to that task.
    We have an opportunity to maximize revenue by continuing to shift toward actively marketing and selling TWU Access. While we have been focused on helping our currentclientele make the shift from their commitment to our traditional model to TWU Access (necessarily), it is now time to find the segment of the market who would choose TWU Access as their preferred mode of delivery. Our market has increased significantly and we have an opportunity to reach students that we never could have before.
    While education is our core business, consideration could be given to expanding our external conferencing/events including film crews until we are at a point of capacity all year round with academic offerings.
**Compensation**
    RRSP Contribution Adjustment: For 2020-21 and possibly into the 2021-22 budget year the university could reduce the matching component of the RRSP program for full-time faculty and staff. This is a significant move since the 4% match is already far below the industry standard. However, in the short term if necessary, TWU could provide anywhere from no matching funds in the RRSP program to 3% matching. The actual matching percentage would be based upon the actual need after CEWS, increasing revenues and utilizing other expense reduction strategies.
    **Compensation Adjustment**: Use with caution. If all other measures have been taken and the university is facing a financial challenge then it might be necessary to reduce faculty and staff compensation. This should be temporary (until May 2021) and not a permanent change in compensation at TWU. Faculty and staff already experience low wages and we live in one of the most expensive locations in North America. Graduated pay reductions would probably be the way forward if this option became a reality. For example:
        Under 30,000 annual salary 2% pay reduction
        30,000-50,000 3% pay reduction
        50-65,000 5% pay reduction
        65-80,000 7% pay reduction
        80-100,000 8% pay reduction
        Over 100,000 10% pay reduction
    Of course, these numbers could be adjusted based on the actual need. Hopefully and prayerfully we will not move to the point of compensation adjustments because the impact it will have on faculty and staff morale will be felt for many years.
    **Compensation Management Strategies:**
    Based on the financial projection of how much revenue drop we will experience in the Fall, the following are a sequence of steps that we can consider taking with compensation management:
        **Step 1– RRSP suspension for 6 months**
            In an event that TWU needs to reduce compensation expenditure, the first step can be suspending RRSP contributions from employers for 6 months.
            ^^Legal: I have already sought legal advice on this and the advice is the risk of constructive dismissal is lower but there is still a level of risk exposure to the organization.^^
        **Step 2 - Cross the board cut for senior management for 3 months**
            In an event that TWU needs to further reduce compensation if we cannot reduce the financial gap by Step 1, we can consider across the board cut for senior management for three months such as below.
            § ELT/SVP – 15%
            § VP/ED – 10%
            § Voluntary for other people to select a % or hours reduction
            ^^Legal: I have already sought legal advice on this and the advice is the risk of constructive dismissal is medium as people can claim this when there is a change to the compensation from the employment agreements. However, we are limiting this to the group of senior management. Also, COVID-19 may impact how the court can see organizations as no choice but to do this to keep people with jobs.^^
        **Step 3 – 2nd wave of temporary layoff**
            TWU has to follow proper legal procedures to implement any temporary layoff like what we did in April. In addition to legal implications, it will be a huge change management concern for employees. However, it is a step to follow in a scenario that TWU has no other choice but to consider temporary lay off employees based on financial constraints and a lack of meaningful work.
        **Step 4 – permanent termination of employees**
            In an event that TWU is faced with a substantial financial crisis, TWU will need to permanently terminate employees to reduce its workforce to a sustainable level (possibly 1/4 or 1/3 of the overall workforce). This approach requires the organization to pay severance for impacted employees. Therefore, it is a longerterm strategy to realize all the financial benefits. It will be a last resort step/strategy to implement.
        Rather than asking everyone to take a percentage pay cut consideration could be given to shorten the working day by 48 minutes? That way there are no full day abstractions once every 2 weeks and employees at least have the option to have a shorter day should they decide to take it.
**Operating Expenses**
    In the event of a significant drop in revenues (and not receiving CEWS), we will likely need to adjust our expenses across the university. It will be critical that we reduce the expenses in a graduated manner that has the least impact upon the individual employee. For example, compensation adjustments should be a final strategy and only if necessary. We must protect our faculty and staff and those relationships as much as possible. From the suggestions, I heard regarding expense reductions, and I am sure there are many other good ones I have missed, this is the order I would suggest
        Reduce operating capital as much as possible. Projects that can be delayed until May 2021 should be.
        Eliminate official university air travel: As a general principle, eliminating official university air travel until May 2021 would be a positive decision. Travel is much less anyways due to COVID19 and there could still be exceptions made if the reasons for air travel were compelling.
    Voluntary budget reductions by budget managers. This is currently underway and makes sense. If there are obvious areas that budget managers could live without until May 2021 they should do that.
    Required budget reduction from September 2020-April 2021. A temporary budget cut across the board could be helpful for us as we manage the 2020-21 budget. This should not be a permanent budget reduction as the operating budgets are already very tight. I would suggest a reduction in the operating budget of 5-10% across the board (after voluntary budget reductions by the budget manager). These reductions would be restored in May 2021 providing the enrolment numbers show a positive trend.
    Establish a moratorium on University-related air travel until the end of the fiscal year. This is a good step to take from a health and safety perspective, as well as from a financial savings point-of-view. As well, this step will result in savings in professional development.
    Provide budget managers with instructions on reviewing their budgets by August 7 to identify all projected savings (e.g. pro-d savings in light of the travel restriction).
    The immediate goal is to not end the 2020-21 fiscal year with negative cash flow. Achieving this in Scenario 1 would mean that we would have closed a gap from our original budget of about $18M (EBIDTA $8M, Phase-1 Measures $5.5M, Current strategies $4.5M). It is unlikely that revenues will rebound to what was originally budgeted in 2020-21 next year. Indeed, international enrolments may well drop more in 2021-22 that in the current year due to the interruption in the recruitment pipeline. All of this points to the need to undertake a structural review of the University’s programs and services in order to identify a preferred future for TWU that is fiscally sound as we emerge from COVID-19.
    We take a different approach to developing our budget or identifying cost savings. We take a zero-based budget approach that would budget itemized expenses rather than budgeting to the account level. In the past, we have often asked areas to find x% savings with no strategic way to prioritize reduction across different departments based on the impact those reductions would have. A rubric should be developed to help calibrate essential expenses across the institution. What one area deems essential another may see as optional without guidance on how to evaluate what is essential or optional.
    In terms of budget savings, I think that each department should have an opportunity to reduce their budgets in a way that they see to be best. For some, this may mean salary reductions and for some it may mean ops reductions. Others may be a combination of the two. To mandate a wholesale salary reduction when there may be more advantageous ways to achieve the same result would be shortsighted.
    Centralized Purchasing for Capex (ie. Hard goods - furniture etc. +$500) - will be a service to departments, reduce cost by increasing economies of scale as well as brand/quality consistency.
    GL Review - review organization-wide GL codes and determine if GL's are being used correctly and overseen by the right areas (ie. Marketing & Comms).
**Restructuring & Strategic Growth Strategies**
    Create / Clarify Operations Function -- are we confident that we are running with as much:
        **Organizational Design**
            § Organizational Structure (Roles), Systems (& Processes) -- Workflows & Platforms -- (Staff & Skills)
            § Organizational Design - role duplication, project and task consolidation, functional redundancies
            § Review Existing Workflows for effectiveness, consistency, compatibility and efficiency (ie. List of Services - Accounting)
            § Proliferation of Platforms - w/ no standardization or economies of scale (ie. Mailchimp, Asana)
            § Internal Training & Development Function - increase efficiency and effectiveness as well as morale - building the team we want vs. trying to hire.
    Task the Deans and budget managers to become more efficient in their program and service offerings.
    Increase efficiency across the academic areas:
        One basic statistics course across the campus rather than individual departments offering their courses with smaller numbers?
        Re-examine the delivery method of FNDN courses. They have become very expensive courses to operate with 2 full-time professors for each course (in some cases) and small class sizes?
            Be more strict on smaller class sizes and collapse many first-year courses together so rather than 30-40 in a section make first-year sections with 60-80students as a norm?
        Online courses could have many more students than traditional face-to-face courses with additional TA help?
    Strategic Re-Structuring. The university needs to look at re-structuring the way we operate and organize the various units across the university. CEWS funding and other decisions could give us the time needed to take a deep look at becoming a leaner, more efficient university. Re-designing programs, collapsing divisions and departments, eliminating programs, re-examining our tuition, revenue and cost structures, and developing new initiatives can be very difficult but this might be the right time to do it. I do believe TWU is quite efficient compared to other institutions but we can always do better.
    Double down on efforts to recruit for graduate and adult programs. Use the growth potential here to offset losses in the undergraduate market.
    According to the Enrolment task force reports, this sector is the one with the most healthy-looking numbers during this season.
    Although UG has been highlighted as the at-risk customers, marketing efforts targeted to them so far have seemed not to produce hoped-for results (cf. Enrolment tf report Jul 27).
    So far, messaging efforts have somewhat favoured UG over other audiences. This might be a missed opportunity to capitalize on groups that are most open to servicing.
    If young adults and parents feel hesitation in this season and show disdain for online learning (cf. surveys), why not turn full force on programs that are already fully online, where the audience prefers online and at-a-distance learning?
    Conduct a full review of the profitability of each program offered at TWU. Consideration should be given to discontinuing programs that cost the University money.
    Educational Program Evaluation Strategy:
        Evaluate all the educational programs based on historical enrolment statistics to determine what will be the educational programs to expand, continue and cease to operate. This project will need to work alongside with Faculty Association to ensure faculty understands the rationale of the project objective is to benefit the long-term goals for the University. This strategy may lead to closure or restructure of specific education programs.
    Growth Strategies:
        Leverage our competitive advantage of community experience and turn that into a multi-access model
        With the community experience moving into both virtual and physical experience, TWU can expand into new markets that we have not tapped into before. If we can offer virtual community experience successfully, TWU is no longer geographically bounded but can consider different educational program offerings that can tailor to different global markets (or local markets)
        Consider expanding on certificate/programs/course offerings that we can easily expand in resources without increasing cost significantly.
        Add certificate programs to soon-to-be graduates and bundles as an add-on certificate for employability in a COVID-19 world. For example:
            § add-on for project management as an option for students to take a few more courses with the project management certificate/concentration being offered
            § Analytic certificate or programs for Computing Sciences students?
    Clarify Organizational Strategy & Goals - to orient, align and calibrate efforts - what are we trying to do to gain competitive advantage within the context of our big picture (mission)
    New Product Opportunities (ie. Degree Completion Expansion)
        Degree Completion
        Leverage 'new' catalogue of 90%+ online UG classes to be deployed for continuing education and distance learners (via P/T instructional infrastructure
        Create functional 'baseline' of Degree Completion programs - based on demand - in addition to existing BA Lead, BA Psych & BA Social Science, Business (ie. Business Management), Biblical Studies (or some variation), 
        Education
        Expand offerings of Certificate & Certification Programs w/ low-cost structures and laddering potential
        Expand Access (and Capacity) of Masters Programs
            § MBA
            § CPSY
    Existing Programs Review (Optimization) - review for new program opportunities, existing redundancies, program consolidation and elimination opportunities.
    Making TWU’s product offering distinct:
        Expanding into online markets opens us to global competition with other similar career-advancing, leadership and business-related online programs. It is recommended that TWU refine its product offering, so that, for example, our TWU (Christian-worldview) MBA would be obviously different from other online MBAs.
